The Joe Rogan.
Experience. You know, when we first met, uh, I knew you were an author,
and I knew that Chris PRT was involved in doing that thing with you and that you
guys were working towards making a, which is happening now,
which is very exciting. Yeah. Crazy. But, uh,
I had never read any of your work until now. So getting ready for this,
I actually listened to the audio book, which is really well done. The,
a guy who reads it, what is his name? Ray Porter. He's great. Yeah.
He's awesome. It's a little disturbing when he does a girl's voice, but no,
getting around that.
Like if a guy's doing a girl voice, especially putting an accent to it. Yeah.
There's like no, getting around the creepy fire to that's. It's.
A little weird, but you, you take,
but he's so good at like Russian accents and then, uh,
south African accents. I, and it's a really good book, man. Thank you.
It's riveting. Like it's thank you. It's hard to put down.
It's it's really good. And most of it, I listen to either, uh,
on workouts, walking, uh, hikes with the dog or in the sauna. <laugh> nice.
<Laugh> perfect place to listen.
To it. So I burn through it in a few days. Nice. It's it's really good, man.
Yeah.
You know, like half the characters, uh,
are the one people that were inspired by actual people.
I know that was what's crazy is like so many people, whether it was, uh,
you know, uh, John Dudley or Barlow or, you know, halfface blades,
like all these black rifle, coffee icon four by four, the six,
so many different things. Sitka. Yeah. So.
Many different things that I strange not to, for me to,
for me not to talk about gear,
just cause I was a gear guy before I went in the Navy.
And then of course in the seal teams, you're like, that's your time to shine.
And to like go down these rabbit holes and try to make the gear better or
anything, that's gonna make you more effective and efficient on the battlefield.
So he really gets it go all in. And then just after the military, same thing,
I'm just a gear guy. So it would be strange just to say he pulled out a rifle,
you know, or something like that. I couldn't wait. I just,
it wouldn't sit right. When.
You were in the seal team,
did you think you were ever going to become an author?
Is this something that you'd always had in the back of your head you would like
to dabble in some day? Like yeah. Yeah.
It wasn't even a thing I was gonna dabble in. It was, I was going to do it. Um,
and since I was a little kid, my mom was a librarian.
So I grew up surrounded by books and this love of reading from a very early age
and back then,
like so early eighties there's hardly anything written about seals. Uh,
but what there is written is a lot of times from fiction mm-hmm,
<affirmative> so protagonists in different stories by guys like Tom klanancy,
David Morell, Nelson DMI,
ajquinelle all these guys in the eighties who had protagonists with backgrounds.
I wanted to have in real life one day. And I enjoyed reading them so much.
I knew that after the military, then I would write. So I just said, wow,
this's gonna.
Be the path. So you had kind of mapped it out, joined the military first,
joined the seals. Yep. And then after you retire then, and,
and how many years were you in for, uh, 20. You were in for,
and then during that time you had always mapped out that you were going to be an
author when you were done. Yep. Yep.
Wow. And Bernie thought it like, while I was in, I wasn't writing,
I wasn't practicing, but I was reading. So I'm first, I'm a fan.
I'm always a reader, uh, both fiction and non.
So all those guys I read in the eighties,
those are like my professors in the art of storytelling.
And then I coupled that with the academic study of warfare, uh, terrorism,
insurgencies counterinsurencies and then the practical application from
Afghanistan, from Iraq.
And then it all kind of came together at the right time in place as I was
getting out. So for that last like year, year and a half,
then I started writing. Cause I wasn't taking guys down range anymore.
My job was essentially to get out of the military. Uh,
and cuz it's you feel like you're the first person to do it. Um,
even though people do it every day, but you want,
you need to get something signed or go to a meeting or get read out of a secret
program or go to medical or dental.
So your job becomes to get out of this gigantic bureaucracy.
So during that time, time, how on that, that takes like a year.
I mean you can probably do it in a week really.
Like jockco didn't do any of it from what I understand, he's just like,
no and he just left, like <laugh>, you know, but no,
you can into those that I know he likem done. Yep, exactly. Yeah.
I didn't do these transition classes you're supposed to do and you sit there in
these rooms and people drone on and on about transition and options for you and
you're awful horrible. But uh, but I did it. I thought you had to, it was like,
get something signed and off you go, but yeah, you don't have to do it. Well,
I think you do just jockco didn't <laugh> like, that's what he told me.
He's like, no, I didn't. I'm like, well who's gonna tell him to do it. You know?
<laugh> right. Like no one, no one's gonna say you have to do this. Get crushed.
Yeah. It's not good luck. Yeah. <laugh> so,
so you were planning all along to write and so during that time,
while you were being deployed and while you're, you know,
you're being a seal in the back of your head,
that was always a part of the plan.
Yeah. That was when I'm done with this, then I'll do that.
So I wasn't thinking about like how to set it up.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I didn't know anyone in publishing didn't know anything,
but I knew that one day that's what I would do. And it wasn't even a question,
but.
You clearly had equal enthusiasm for being a seal as well. Yeah. Oh yeah.
You have to. That's why they had to be separate. So I had to be 100% all in,
on being a seal.
Cuz you have to-hmm <affirmative> that's what you owe the guys under your
command. Uh, when one down range, that's what you owe their families,
the country, the mission. Uh,
but when I got home from that last Iraq deployment and took a breath and looked
around and saw, oh my family needs me. I've been gone for quite some time.
Even when you're training, when you're training,
you're out for three weeks here, two weeks there,
month there getting ready to deploy.
So it's not just the six to seven month deployments.
It's all that time spent training up a down range with your team.
So I knew that my family needed me it's time to get out. So it was very clear.
It wasn't a hard decision for me.
Plus I'd I'd gotten to the end of my time where I would tactically lead guys on
the battlefield. Uh, so that's a troop commander.
So that's where jockca was when he did his last deployment as a troop commander
as an oh four, which is a, a major in the other services,
a Lieutenant commander in the Navy. And after that, yeah, you're still a leader,
but you're leading from behind essentially or the tactical operations center.
You're more of a manager type leader.
You're not out there kicking doors with the guys, uh,
which is what we all come in to do or most of us come in to do anyway.
So I knew that that part of my life was over and it was time to transition,
take care of the family. So it's time to start writing. Did you take.
Journalism classes or writing classes or?
Nope. It was all the reading, all that reading I did growing up and uh,
my mom introduced me to a guy named Joseph Campbell back in 1987. Oh sure.
So he did, uh,
a series of interviews with bill Moyers on PBS mm-hmm <affirmative> called, uh,
the power of myth and he wrote a book called hero with a thousand faces.
So back in 1988, so I'm, I don't know, 11 years old or whatever, 12 years old.
Um,
I get introduced to him and I read that book and I watched all those interviews
and I read the book that came out called the power of myth based on those
interviews. And I think I applied that paradigm,
that model of the hero's journey, the monolith to really every,
every movie I watched, every series I watch to every book I read from then on.
And that really helped as I made the transition because I had this foundation,
it wasn't just like I woke up one day and said, you know, what,
can you make money at writing? Oh, that sounds like a good thing to do.
I'll I'll go back and read and I'll go back and see kind of figure out the
history of this genre. No,
I already had that figured out because I did it my whole life and it was that
foundation. So that was already the air. And while I was in the military,
I kept reading for fun, read those, uh, fiction books still.
And I discovered Stephen Hunter and Brad Thor and Vince Flyn and Daniel Silva.
And uh, and now mark Graney today. So those are kind of the, the,
the kinda the bigger names in the genre. And, but then I was also studying,
studying all that nonfiction stuff, trying to stay up on my game to make my,
make the best decisions I possibly could under fun.
I for the guys when it mattered. So, uh, I'm just always studying,
always reading. When I was down range,
I never really watched a movie or played video games.
It was always if I wasn't out operating or we weren't, uh,
putting together a target package that I was reading.
That's interesting because I,
I would think that most people that would venture and become a professional
novelist, they would have some sort of background in writing,
like some sort of education, some classical education,
English literature or something.
Yeah, no, it was all reading. It was all wow. Knowing what I liked,
knowing what I didn't like.
And that's why the first novel is really all about revenge because that theme
resonated with me.
Obviously it's resonated with people from the beginning of time from telling
those stories around campfires usually, uh,
told in a way to pass on some sort of a lesson about something to the next
generation. So they don't have to learn the same lessons in blood,
but they're told as a story and pass down that way. And I think that's,
that's why there's so many death wish movies.
That's why there's just cause you can't. If someone cuts you off in traffic,
you can't go out and do something or someone, you know, at work,
there's some politics, you don't get the promotion or whatever you get mad.
You can't do anything about it. It, but you can in the pages of a novel,
you can escape there or you can escape in the movie theater and you can see
somebody that goes out and gets this revenge and it makes you feel good cuz you
know, you can't do it cause in real life, if you do it, you're gonna go to jail.
You can get the death penalty. It's not possible, but you can do it in the,
you can explore all that in the pages of a fictional thriller. So, uh,
I think that's why it resonates with, uh, with people. And then in this part,
their case,
I got to take the emotions and feelings behind things I was involved in down
range and then just apply them to a fictional narrative.
So I didn't have to talk to somebody and say, Hey,
how did it feel to be a sniper in ramati in 2005, 2006,
and then filter that through whatever biases I had or whatever my past
experience or whatever, and then put it into a fictional narrative. No,
I just took my experience and then just morphed it and put it into the
narrative. So it, uh, ended up being very therapeutic.
So did you approach, um, an agent first? Like how did you get.
Started? Thank goodness. I didn't know. You're supposed to do that.
<laugh> cause I'd probably still be looking for one today.
So I did very little research on that front cuz I think that a lot of people can
study how to do something too much or too long and it's gonna be different for
everybody, but you know,
some people can study how to do something their whole life and never actually do
it. Uh, cuz you only have certain amount of bandwidth.
And for me I read so Stephen Presfield,
who's become a great friend now who's on this show. Um, a while back.
He wrot I love that guy. He's so great. Yeah. He wrote gates of fire,
a legend to back Vance, the Afghan campaign.
And then has those series of books on creativity, the war of art, art. Yeah.
Just toely you gave that out to people. Right. For a while he had a stack,
a stack of them. That is to keep it the studio. Yeah. So he's uh, he's amazing.
And actually listening to him on this show before I started writing,
gave me the idea of writing a one word theme down to keep me on on point.
So I wrote revenge for that first novel on a yellow sticky,
but he didn't really say this on your show.
He was talking about somebody else who a playwright who would write a sentence
to keep him on theme. But somehow through my filters, I heard him say, uh, oh,
a one word theme on a yellow sticky on my computer. And so I did the same thing.
So it wasn't, it's not really what he said on the show,
but I took it as what he said and I wrote it down and that really for the first
book, revenge,
second book redemption and then fourth book I morphed or third book,
I morphed a little bit dark side of man. But uh,
so those are the themes that really kept me on track. But,
and you're on the fourth one right now. You're on the yeah.
How long does it take you to do one? Uh,
the first one can take as long as you want,
because you have to have for fiction, you have to have the finished product.
So for nonfiction you can sell like an idea, a chapter, an outline,
something like that. Like you're coming from sports or politics, you know,
you can sell that idea cuz they know they're gonna get some sales for this.
You have to have the whole manuscript done.
So the first one took about strive two years. Um,
and you get it as good as you can possibly get it.
And then what you're supposed to do is go to an agent. But I didn't know that.
Thank goodness. Um, because I didn't do, I did that research.
I talked about with Stephen Pressfield's books on creativity, war of art,
authentic swing, uh, turning pro do the work, uh, read those,
read Stephen Kings on writing Davids, Stephen King's books.
It's so it's an autobiography really? Yeah. It's not just about writing. Yeah.
It's about his, his entire life. Uh,
David morerell's the successful novelist and I think those were the,
those were the main ones that I, that I read. And then I was like, okay, got it.
And I put those within sight of me and my computer,
but I didn't touch 'em again and I, but they were there.
So I would look to them for inspiration as far as oh,
Stephen Hunter says you're profess, sorry,
Stephen press field says you're a professional. Uh, you're a writer.
You sit down and write, uh,
the writer's block doesn't exist cuz it doesn't exist for dentists or truckers
or doctors. Yeah. They don't get doctors' block.
So you don't get writer's block you're professional and you write.
So just having them that close, uh, really helped with that transition.
And I made the decision to now once I was a seal and now I write,
so I think that really helped, but I didn't know he needed, he needed an agent.
Um, and thank goodness I didn't because uh, otherwise, like I said,
it'd still be looking for one cuz those are the gatekeepers essentially mm-hmm
<affirmative> and they have assistance that are even gatekeepers to them.
So it's, it's tough. I think, but lucky for me, um,
a friend of mine sat next to a guy named Brad Thor who writes in the genre, uh,
has a character called Scott harvatht who's a former seal and uh, he's a,
he's a great guy.
My friend sat next to him at a one of these events for Trey's money for a seal
foundation type thing. And as I'm writing,
I'm about four months in and my buddy says, Hey, do you want,
do you know this guy named Brad Thor? And I said, oh yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean,
I mean, I don't know him, but I've read all this stuff and he said,
do you wanna talk to him? I know you're writing a book. And I said, yeah,
I'd love to talk to him. Would he talked to me? And he said, yeah,
that I'll set it up. I helped him out with a couple things in, in his books.
So sure enough,
he sets it up and actually I'm up here in an event in LA at the time I was
trying to find a quiet place to, to have this call with Brador.
So I go to the parking lot at the, the terrane resort parking lot up there.
Sun's beating down on my old <laugh> my land cruiser. Everything's off though.
The engine's off. Cause it's so loud. And, and uh,
I thought my pen and paper are there. I'm sweating, but uh, sure enough,
we had this great call and, and uh, it was like a job interview.
I think he wanted to know like, Hey, why do you wanna write?
And I told him the same stuff I you or tell everybody that I grew up loving
reading and knew I was gonna do this one day and about my mom being a librarian
and, and knowing the history of this genre and all that,
and just being excited about it, he could sense the passion and he's like,
all right. So if you write a book, what I can do for you,
your friend told me some things you did in the seal teams.
And as a thank you for that, uh, I'll let my publisher know it's coming.
I can't guarantee they'll open the package.
Can't guarantee they'll read one word.
Definitely can't guarantee that they'll like it. But as a thank you,
I can let them know it's coming. And I said, that's all I need. And he said,
how long until you're done? And I said one year from today. And so he's,
he's like, all right, don't call me. How did you.
The chapters, this is your first book.
How did you know one year from today you'd be done? Cause I was cuz.
Other guys that have serious characters have one book at you year.
And so I figured, well, <laugh>, you know, doing this doing thing.
I was about four months into it. So I was like, ah,
give or take a couple months. So sure enough. I, uh,
I called him back one year from the day and he's like, but he said, Hey, don't,
don't call me. Don't send me chapters. I'm not gonna give you any advice. Uh,
and he did gimme some advice on that call,
but he didn't want me bugging him throughout the year. Right. Uh,
which I totally understand now, um, and called him back a year from,
from then and said it's done. And to his credit, it was so awesome. He said,
is it done or is it the best you can possibly make it? And I said, well,
I could probably edit it a little bit, but it's finished. And he's like,
all right, call me back again. <laugh> when it's the best you can possibly do.
So I took another four months of reading it and editing it,
sending it to a couple of friends. And uh,
I then called him back four months later and said,
this is the best I can possibly get it. And he said, all right,
I'll let 'em know it's coming. So, so how.
Many hours a day do you think you were putting in? Gosh.
So it's not like hours. I mean,
I would love to get on a discipline type schedule,
like a jockco type schedule someday, but, uh, I'm not quite there yet. Uh,
especially at this stage where I'm still feel,
I still feel like this is a startup and I can't say no to a lot of things.
Um, I need to take advantage of emerging opportunities,
just like I would on the battlefield, uh, looking at the enemy,
they're learning from us, we're learning from them. Uh,
and it's really who adapts quicker.
You're looking for those emerging opportunities, taking advantage of momentum,
um, looking for gaps.
So the same things that you would do for a startup or starting like a coffee
shop somewhere you have to do for writing.
And I didn't really get that at the outside. Like how so? So I, you,
you're not just writing and sending it to New York,
which is what I thought up until about the time I published the first one.
I thought you just went back and forth with an editor a little bit.
You start the next book. Well really you have to do, uh, advertising, branding,
co-branding all your marketing stuff, your budgets, your social media,
like anything you would have to do with any other business that you're starting
up, you have to do as an author. Mm-hmm <affirmative> so, uh,
so I kind of treated it as a startup and starting it, like,
just like you're starting something in your garage and you're hungry and you're
passionate and uh, you're seeing an opportunity here or there and you're,
and you just want to build this readership and uh,
let people know that you have this character and see where it goes. So, uh,
so it's been a, a sprint. So point being, uh,
at some point I think you get to a stage where you can say no and you don't have
to sprint off in all these different directions, uh, almost at the same time,
um, and can say, okay, you know what I'm gonna do.
I'm gonna wake up and I'm gonna write for four hours.
And it doesn't matter if someone calls for an interview or if CNN wants you on
or Fox news wants you on it doesn't matter. I'm just gonna do my four hours.
And then after that, then I'll check my texts. Then I'll check my emails.
And if something comes up, yeah, we can schedule it out.
And later you later in the week, but right now it's just like, oh,
really Fox wants me on bam. I mean, I'm on. And they,
and all of a sudden now I'm not writing for those four hours in writing. Right.
Right. Usually it's, uh, the first novel and these and this, all the others,
uh, were really done between 10 at night and about four in the morning,
because that's the time it was quiet in our house with three kids, a dog wife.
And yeah.
That's how I do stand up writing too. Same thing. And everyone's,
asleeping's your best work?
Cause there's no one interrupting that interruption. It.
That feel like they can't work like that.
And they only work good if they get up in the morning and then write
immediately, they write even before breakfast.
So I was getting up and working out like that up until up until the publication
of the first book. And then things got a little crazy,
the publicity stuff and publicity stuff. And then writing late at night,
also working on the next one,
dialing that in and then you're editing while you're writing another. Oh,
so you're kinda juggling at the same time when you're in this, oh,
Jesus book a year, uh, type program. That's what you're,
that's what you're doing. Um,
and maybe I'll get past that at some point and I'll have a end date and then
I'll start the next one. But right now it's not, uh, not quite like that yet.
Okay.